>> Mike North: We also have,
this has been around in JavaScript for
ages, Getters and Setters.
An underappreciated,
underutilized way that we can have
properties that are not value based.
But they are based on a getter and
a setter.
Some people call these, the computer
science jargon is an accessor and
a mutator.
One is used to access state and
the other's used to mutate state.
But effectively here what we can see,
is the getters job is to return
the value of a property.
The setters job is a function that
takes care of whatever it means
to set that property.
And from the outside world we don't
know the difference between this and
a value based property.
There are ways to figure it out, right?
You can get into the world of object
property descriptors and things like that.
But the way you use it conventionally,
as you see down here, is I can just call
name.full and use assignment and
we're just gonna end up,
that will have the consequence of
invoking the getter or the setter.
So in this case, you can see I've
created a derived property for
full name that is just based on value
based properties for first and last name.
And when you say, give me your full name,
I assemble it together, and
return it to you.
And when you say,
here's your full name, I'm setting it.
It splits it apart, and updates the value
based properties correspondingly.
So you can use this in TypeScript,
no problem.
Really, really powerful idea.
Just be sure that you you don't
want to surprise your fellow developers.
Not many people expect that an assignment
operator could have some significant
side effects that could cause functions
to be invoked, and so on, right?
This is uncommon enough that it could
cause a little bit of confusion.
So, something like this, I would say
is fair game but, I definitely wouldn't
cause like a setter to send a fetch
request out and to do all sorts of stuff,
that would be really unexpected for
anyone else that touches your code.